

* Perform literature search on a computer science topic. Librarian Beth Brin will demonstrate the use of several computer science research databases. Beth has also put together an online guide for this class.


* Journal articles generally include keywords and categories that come from a designated classification system. Provide a list of keywords for your topic using the ACM classification scheme.

  Theory of computation
    Computational complexity and cryptography
      Quantum complexity theory

  Hardware
    Emerging technologies
      Quantum technologies
        Quantum computation
          Quantum communication and cryptography

  Security and privacy
    Cryptography
      Public key (asymmetric) techniques
      Symmetric cryptography and hash functions
      Mathematical foundations of cryptography


* You should find at least 5 references that come from journals and/or conference proceedings.


Background: 

Shor, Peter W. "Algorithms for quantum computation: discrete logarithms and factoring." "Proceedings 35th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science," 1994.

Abstract: A computer is generally considered to be a universal computational device; i.e., it is believed able to simulate any physical computational device with a cost in computation time of at most a polynomial factor: It is not clear whether this is still true when quantum mechanics is taken into consideration. Several researchers, starting with David Deutsch, have developed models for quantum mechanical computers and have investigated their computational properties. This paper gives Las Vegas algorithms for finding discrete logarithms and factoring integers on a quantum computer that take a number of steps which is polynomial in the input size, e.g., the number of digits of the integer to be factored. These two problems are generally considered hard on a classical computer and have been used as the basis of several proposed cryptosystems. We thus give the first examples of quantum cryptanalysis.


Shor, Peter W. "Polynomial-Time Algorithms for Prime Factorization and Discrete Logarithms on a Quantum Computer." Society fo Industrial and Applied Mechanics," Volume 41, Issue 2, 1999, pp: 303-332.

Abstract: A digital computer is generally believed to be an efficient universal computing device; that is, it is believed to be able to simulate any physical computing device with an increase in computation time by at most a polynomial factor. This may not be true when quantum mechanics is taken into consideration. This paper considers factoring integers and finding discrete logarithms, two problems that are generally thought to be hard on classical computers and that have been used as the basis of several proposed cryptosystems. Efficient randomized algorithms are given for these two problems on a hypothetical quantum computer. These algorithms take a number of steps polynomial in the input size, for example, the number of digits of the integer to be factored.


Sergienko, Alexander V. "Quantum Communication and Cryptography." CRC Press. 2006.

Abstract: Quantum cryptography offers new methods of seccure communication. Unlike traditional classical cryptography whcih employees various mathematical techniques to restrict eavesdroppers from learning the contents of encrypted message, quantum cryptography is focused on the physics of information. The process of sending and stroing information is always carried out by physical means, for example photons in optical fibers on electrons in electric currents. Eavesdropping can be viewed as measurements on a physical object - in this case the carrier of the information. What the eavesdropper can meassure and how, depends exclusively on the laws of physics. Using quantum phenomna, we can design and implement a communication systm that can always detect eavesdropping. This is because measurements on the quantum carrier of information disturb itand so leave traces. What follows is a brief overview of the quest for constructing unbreakable ciphers, from classical to quantum.


Waks, Edo. et al. "Secure communication: Quantum cryptography with a photon turnstile." Nature 420.6917, 2002, 762-762.

Abstract: Quantum cryptography generates unbreakable cryptographic codes by encoding information using single photons, which until now have relied on highly attenuated lasers as sources. But these sources can create pulses that contain more than one photon, making them vulnerable to eavesdropping by photon splitting. Here we present an experimental demonstration of quantum cryptography that uses a photon turnstile device, which is more reliable for delivering photons one at a time. This device allows completely secure communication in circumstances under which this would be impossible with an attenuated laser.


* Use at least two different databases in your search.

* Get a copy of one of the references that you found and find at least one new related reference.

* List all your references in the format below.:
 Author. Title. Journal/conference name, Volume, Year, Page range.
 Author. Book-Title. Publisher. Year. 
 Author/Organization. Title. Website. Date checked. 

Used ACM
Ray A Perlner. Quantum Resistant Public Key Cryptology: A Survey. National Institute of Standards and Technology. 2009, pgs 85-93. 

Priya Riana. A Study on Qunatum Cryptology Based Security Management in Cloud. Departmend of Computer Science and Engineering UIET, Panjab University, Chandigarh, India. 2015.

IEEE

Alberto Porzio. Quanbum Cryptography: Approaching Communication Security from a Quantum Perspective. Fotonica AEIT Italian Conference on Photonics Technologies. 2014. 
